1. Git is an open source distributed version control system. git is also a development tool used for source code management . it is used to handle small to vary large projects efficiently. it is used to track changes in source code,enable multiple developers to work together on non-linear development. it it solve the major problem of managing sorce code.                2. The major difference between git and git hub are; Git is a version control system that let you manage and keep track of your source code history while GIT-HUB ia a cloud-based hosting service that let you manage Git repositories.                Also Git is a command line tool while GIT-HUB is a web-based graphical interface which provide you with the access control,basic task tool along with severe collaboration features.                                                           3. BASIC WORKFLOW FOR GIT; Developers start by cloning the central repository.In their own local copies of the project,they edit files and commit changes as they would with SVN; However,these new commit are stored locally and they are completely isolated from the central repository. This let developers defer synchronizing upstream until they are at a convient break point. To publish change to the official project,developers push their local main branch to the repository,this is equivalent to SVN commit,except that they are not in the central main branch.
4. Git repository track and save the history of all changes made to the files in a git project . it saves the data in a repository called GIT. And it stores everyv single file of each version of each file it track as a blob. 
5. The git commit command captures a snapshot of the project currently stage changes. committed snapshot  can be thought of as safe versions of a project and will never change them unless you explicitly ask it to.
It commit includes; All parent object ids,Authors name,Emails and Date, Committer name and email and commit time.
6. A branch represent an independent line of development. Branch serve as an abstraction for the edit/stage/commit process. You can think of them as a process to request a brand new working directory,staging area,and project history.
6b. Branching allows teams of developers create a copy of the code base at that point in time. changes to the branch do not affect other developers on the team.